## [PyGallica: Creating a Python Wrapper for the Gallica Digital Library](https://github.com/ian-nai/Conference-Work/blob/master/Posters/PyGallica_poster_2019.pdf)

Creating open source software in libraries can provide a valuable way to encourage access and collaboration with web-accessible digital collections, allowing users to easily access information and explore different facets of online libraries across institutions. This poster will describe the creation of PyGallica, a Python wrapper for the National Library of France’s Gallica API. I will address the ways in which working on such coding projects can help librarians better serve communities both on and beyond their campuses, and how the experience of building the tool served as a learning experience and an experiment in open source software creation in academic libraries, specifically as a piece of software that increases the discoverability and accessibility of digital collections. I will also talk about ways in which I plan to incorporate the wrapper into future workshops and instruction, and about how the tool facilitates online collaboration and communication between others in the digital humanities and scholarship community. This project fits into the category of Smashing Disciplinary Boundaries, as it builds boundaries between international institutions and is being collaboratively developed as open source software on GitHub. The poster will describe what a Python wrapper is and why it is of value to librarians, and will compare this project to other coding projects undertaken at other academic libraries in the U.S. I will describe the technology involved, the efficacy of librarians creating such tools and disseminating them as pieces of open source software that can help make library collections more accessible, and the best practices for making such software available (including licensing and hosting opportunities). I will give a brief overview of the tool itself, including its code, and then talk about publicizing the tool and its future as a piece of collaborative, open source software. I will also discuss how I’ve worked with the National Library of France to highlight the tool to an international audience.
